This 2D image doesn't accurately show the 3D slope of the "Direct Route" cutline we followed initially. It was an unrelentingly hard slog nowhere but straight up.

As you ascend, one's focus is on the physical effort and psychological mind games during the climb. But noticing little bits of beauty along the way bring brief reminders of the pure joy of being here.

Long after leaving the treeline and negotiating the winding, scree-covered path up, this prominent outcrop in the foreground shows the scale of the land and mountains in the background.

There are number of geocaches hidden along the path up the mountain. The finding hint for this one was "In a hole Covered by rocks", which was almost no help at all given there was nothing but rock and rock covering rock up here. But eventually it was found.

You can see the old Cameron Fire Lookout hut just beside my ear. Seeing the goal like that and knowing how much effort was yet needed to get there was almost cruel.

We're getting closer to the top and it seems to be guarded not only by elevation, but rock walls as well.

Cameron Lookout was built in 1929 and finally decommissioned in 1954. During that time it was the highest fire lookout in Canada. The structure is slowly returning to earth.

The view in all directions is breathtaking from the lookout window.

Here's the lookout again, this time with a painterly style applied.

The majority of the geocaching event participants shot back down the mountain with four of us taking as much time as we needed (and it was a substantial amount) to descend.

I asked Dan to pose for this shot just to show the scale of "human to rock".

We took a new trail down to Cataract Creek when descended back to the trailhead. This trail is built on the original trail which was partially obliterated by floods in 2013. This trail offers much more gradual slopes and is recommended.

There were nine attendees at the "Fourteen Years Later @ the Mount Burke Summit" geocaching event. The event organizer, Don, is behind the camera.